In two nights' ride he passed the lights of Casas Grandes off to the west, the
small city receding away behind him on the plain. He crossed the old road coming
down from Guzmán and Sabinal and struck the Casas Grandes River and took the
trail north along the river bank. In the early morning hours and before it was
quite light he passed the pueblo of Corralitos, half abandoned, half in ruins.
The houses of the town loopholed against the vanished Apaches. The naked
slagheaps dark and volcanic against the skyline. He crossed the railroad tracks
and an hour north of the town in the gray dawn four horsement sallied forth from
a grove of trees and halted their mounts in the track before him.

He reined the horse. The riders sat silently. THe dark animals they road raised
their noses as if to search him out of the air. Beyond the trees the bright flat
shape of the river lay like a knife. He studied the men. He'd not seen them move
yet they seemed closer. They sat divided before him on the track two and two.

Qué tiene allá? they said.

Los huesos de mi hermano.

They sat in silence. One of the riders detached himself and rode forward. He
crossed the track in his riding forward and then crossed it back. Riding erect,
archly. As if at some sinister dressage. He halted the horse almost within
armreach and he leaned forward with his forearms crossed on the pommel of his
saddle.

Huesos? he said.

Sí.

The new light in the east was behind him and his face was a shadow under the
shape of his hat. The other riders were dark figures yet. The rider sat upright
in the saddle and looked back towards them. Then he studied Billy again.

Abralo, he said.

No.

No?

They sat. There was a flash of white beneath his hat as if he'd smiled. What
he'd done was to seize his horse's reins in his teeth. The next flash was a
knife that had come from somewhere in his clothing and caught the light in
turning for just a moment like a fish deap in a river. Billy dropped down from
the offside of his horse. The bandolero caught up the packhorse's leadrope but
the packhorse balked and squatted on its haunches and the man booted his horse
forward and made a pass at the hitchropes with his knife while the packhorse
sawed about on the end of the lead. Some among his companions laughed and the
man swore and he hauled the packhorse forward and dallied the leadrope to his
saddlehorn again and reached and cut the ropes and pulled the soogan of bones to
the ground.

Billy was trying to undo the tie on the flap of the saddlebag to get his pistol
but Niño turned and stamped and backed away sawing his head. The bandolero
undallied and cast off the leadrope and stepped down. The packhorse turned and
went trotting. The man bent above the shrouded form of the ground and unseamed
with a single long pass of the knife ropes and soogan ll from end to end and
kicked aside the coverings to reveal in teh graying light Boyd's poor form in
teh losely fitting coat with his hands crossed at his chest, the withered hands
with the bones imprinted in teh leather skin, lying there with his caven face
turned up and clutching himself like some fragile being fraught with code in
that indifferent dawn.

You son of a bitch, said Billy. You son of a bitch.

Es un engaño? said the man. Es un engaño?

He kicked at the poor desiccated thing. He turned with the knife.

Dónde está el dinero?

Las alforjas, called out one of the riders. Billy had swung under Niño's
bridlereins. But the horse must have begun to see the loosening of some demoniac
among them for he reared and backed and in his backing trod among the bones and
he reared again and pawed and the bandolero was snatched off balance and one
forehoof caught his belt and ripped it from him and tore open the front of his
trousers. He scrambled from under the horse and swore wildly and made a grab
again for the swinging reins and the man behind him laughed and before anyone
would have thought of such a thing occurring he plunged his knife into the
horse's chest.

The horse stopped and stood quivering. The point of the blade had bedded itself
in the animal's breastbone and the bandolero stepped back and threw out his
hands.

Goddamn you to hell, Billy said. He held the trembling horse by the throatlatch
and took hold of the handle of the knife and pulled the blade from the horse's
chest and flung it away. Blood welled, blood ran down the front of the horse. He
snatched off his hat and pushed it against the wound and looked wildly back at
the mounted men. They sat their horses as before. One of them leaned and spat
and jerked his chin at the others. Vámanaos, he said.

The bandolero was demanding that Billy go fetch the knife. Billy didn't answer.
He held his hat against the horse's chest and tried once more to reach back and
unfasten the saddlebatg pocket but he could not reach it. The bandolero reached
and got hold of the tiestraps and pulled down the saddlebags onto the ground and
dragged them from the horse.

Vámonos, called the rider.

But the bandolero had already found the pistol and he held it up to show them.
He dumped the bags out and kicked Billy's possibles over the ground, his spare
clothes, his razor. He picked upa  shirt and held it up and then draped it
across his shoulder and he cocked the pistol and spun the cylinder and let the
hammer down again. He stepped across the wreckage of the bones unshrouded from
out of the soogan and cocked the pistol and put it to Billy's head and demanded
his money. Billy could feel his hat going warm and sticky with blood where he
held it to the horse's chest. The blood was seeping through the felt and running
on his arm. You go to hell, he said.

Vámonos, called the rider. He turned his horse.

The man with the pistol looked at them. Tengo que encontrar mi cuchillo, he
called.

He uncocked the pistol and went to shove it in his belt but he had no belt. He
turned and looked upriver where the day was coming beyond the brambly river
breaks. The breath of the standing horses plumed and vanished. The leader told
him to get his horse. He said he did not need his knife and that he had killed a
good horse for no reason.

Then they were gone. Billy stood holding the crushed and bloodsogged hat and he
heard the horses crossing the river upstream and then he just heard the river
and the first birds what were waking in the country and his own breath and the
labored breathing of his horse. He put his arm around the horse's neck and held
it and he could feel it trembling and feel it lean against him and he was afraid
that it would die and he could feel in the hreose's breath a despair much like
his own.
